Let's do an ls
to get our bearings
and see what files and directories
we're working with.
Let's use the asterisk or star and
match all the files that end in .txt.
ls *.txt.
What just happened is the shell
performed a globular operation
to expand *.txt and it passed
those results to the ls command.
In this example running ls *.txt
is the same as running ls ab.txt a.txt b.txt
and songs.txt.
Of course you can clearly see it's easier
to use a pattern like *.txt
than it is to type out
all the files by hand.
I just wanted to be clear about
what is happening when you use wildcards.
Now let's look at all the files
that start with the letter a.
How would you do that?
That's right, type in - ls a*.
Now let's find all the files
that start with an a
and end in .txt.
We can do that by typing
in ls a*.txt.
Can you see a way that we can make
the wildcard even simpler?
How about this?
ls a*t.
And that gives us the same results.
Let me clear the screen here
and you see that our bearings look at
what we're working with.
Now let's use the question mark wildcard.
Let's match all the files that are
exactly one character in length.
Wé'll do that by running ls?
If you want to display all the files
that are two characters in length,
then just use 2 question marks.
Each question mark represents
a single character.
So do ??
and we'll see that all the two character
files and directories are returned,
in this case they're just files.
Let's list all the files
that start with an a,
can contain exactly one character,
and end in .txt.
To do that, we'll run ls a
followed by question mark
which represents exactly one character
and then .txt.
Let's check out the difference between
the question mark and star.
Let's run la a *.txt.
The star matches zero or more characters,
so running ls a*.txt matches
the file named a.txt.
Before we continue,
I want to point out that
you can use the same flags and options
as you normally do with the command
while you're using wildcards.
Let's get a long listing of all the files
that start with the letter a.
So, just like we normally would use
with ls to get a long listing,
we'll use ls -l
and then we'll use a* to get
every file and directory
that began with the letter a.
Let me clear the screen again here.
Here's an example of using
a character class.
Let's match all the files that
start with the letter c,
then contain a vowel, and end in t.
To do this, we'll run an ls c
and then any other characters,
or excuse me,
all the characters we want to
match with a, e, i, o, u.
And then t.
And I want to point out too
that it doesn't matter
what order the characters
appear in the bracket.
So we can use e, i, o, a, u,
and we'll get the same results.
And still another one here.
Still get the same results.
Let's use a range.
This range will match all the files
that start with an a, b, c, or d.
To do that, we'll do ls a-d to
represent a through d and then '*'.
Here's an example of using
a named character class.
This command will return a list
of files that end in a digit.
I've simply been using an
ls command to demonstrate
how to match files using wildcards.
But let's do a little bit of
actual work with wildcards.
Let's clear screen and run ls
again to see what's in our directory.
Let's move all of the text files
into the directory named notes.
To do this we can use the
mv command to move.
And then we'll use '*.txt'
to match all the text files.
And we'll end with the directory name,
which is notes.
And let's see if that worked.
Okay I'm not seeing any other files
that end in .txt.
Let's look in the notes directory
and see if they're there.
And indeed they are.
Let's move all of the mp3 files
into the music directory.
We can do this in a couple
of different ways.
One way would be to run mv *.mp3
and specify the songs directory.
We can also use '*3' since that would match
and we can even use a character class like
'*' and then digit.
I'll go ahead and just use
mv *.mp3 to perform the match.
Let's look inside the music directory
and we can see that the 2 mp3 files
that match or start at mp3,
extension are moved
into the music directory.
Let's use wildcards to delete some files.
Here's a good pattern to follow.
Test your wildcard pattern
with the ls command
before you use that pattern
with the rm command.
It's where you can hopefully
avoid deleting any files
that you do not intend to remove.
Let's remove all the files
that are 2 characters in length.
We'll check our wildcard pattern here
to make sure it returns what we want to do
and it looks like it does,
so we'll go ahead and run rm
using that same expression.
And now the files that match
that pattern are gone.
Today you learned how to use wildcards,
you learned that the '*' matches
zero or more characters.
You also learned that the '?'
matches exactly one of any character.
You've learned about character classes
and how you can match any character
that is included between the brackets.
You were taught about ranges
and how you can create
your own custom ranges
by starting with the character,
following it by a hyphen
and then ending it with
another character.
Finally, you've learned about
the various named character classes
and how they can be used to match
common sets of characters
such as digits, uppercase letters
and lowercase letters.